
This is a journal of my progress as learn the fundamentals of software engineering. I chose Github as my platform because I want my journal to include version control. Also, I use Github regularly, so I think that it will inspire me to write about my progress often.

I started an IBM Data Science Certificate course on October 1, 2020. What I have learned since then is that, although I am doing well on the quizzes after multiple attempts, that there is a foundational body of knowledge that I am missing that would help me in learning this vast subject. As a result, I find myself researching more about the fundamentals of computer science, and so far, it leads back to math.

Efficient code - clean coding - stems from an understanding of the theory behind the code. Math such as algorithms, linear algebra, calculus, statistics, and probability would help me on my journey.

I am only somewhat proficient in HTML and CSS. I need to learn an actual programming language, such as Python, JavaScript, Ruby, or SQL. As I go through the IBM tutorials and the SQL bootcamp (Zero to Mastery series), I am aware that learning advanced math would help my progress exponentially.

Last Friday, I changed my major from Health Information Technology to Computer Programming. As of today, October 12, the change is official. I wanted to start with Data Science, so I bought five books to help me get started.

One on building a career in data science, a Python book, a Ruby book, "The Pragmatic Programmer", and "Cracking the Code". The books are thick, and they cover a lot of material. I have decided that learning how to program is not a sprint, but a marathon. And that's okay. However long it takes, that's how long it takes.

I'm excited to have completed my first Jupyter Notebook project and turned it in today. I was able to ocmplete all of the parts to specification with help from W3Schools, Stack Overflow, and Google. I just finished connecting both my Desktop Mac and my Mac Air to Github. I am feeling successful. I believe that it's all going to work out for the best. 

This is the 3rd time that I have attempted to learn how to code, use Github, etc. The first time was in 2016. It was difficult because I worked for a cruise line, and the internet on ships is very slow and expensive. I felt like learning online was the way to go, but I was only at home for two months at a time. 

The second time I tried to learn was in 2018. I purchased a "Break Into Tech" blueprint, on sale for $1499.00(!) Yup, I was desperate. And I spent my vacations at home trying to learn to code. But I always had two months, and then, back to the ship. Also, I saw a survey from Stack Overflow that highlighted the lack of females and people of color in tech, and the data was so abysmal and depressing, that I quit trying to learn to code again. I felt like, Why should I spend all of this time trying to learn this skill, if no one wants to hire me because I'm a black female? It was very disheartening

Fast-forward to 2020, with the coronavirus highlighting systemic injustice all across the land, and I feel good. I have decided that I will learn to programm because I love it, not because I may get a job that pays well. I actually, genuinely, enjoy the process of learning. I studied health information technology from Fall 2019 through now, and I was a little resentful at first, becuase I spent a lot of money on tuition and books, and the time invested was insane. I was mad because I thought, "I could have used that time to study computer science with the Zero-To-Mastery Academy for FREE" (yes, he gave out free COVID 6 month memberships, and I was a recipient, but I had no time to enjoy the courses, becuase I was so busy with my HIT classes). 

However, I am grateful for the HIT program, because it taught me a lot about myself, my goals, and my dreams. It taught me that I am capable of taking online classes and succeeding. It taught me that I can persevere through difficult classes, even when life is very hard, and still do well. I didn't know that about myself. It taught me that I cannot do things "just for the money". The passion has to be there in order for me to follow through with it. And apparerntly, I am genuinely passionate about programming, and technology in general. It taught me that I have to do what's in my heart, and not worry wo much about hurting other people's feelings. My HIT professors are amazing human beings, but I could not continue to take classes in a discipline that I did not enjoy. 

I woke up around 5:00am without an alarm this morning, and watched Zero to Mastery's video called "Pyhton Developer Road Map". That video inspired me to begin watching the "Data Structures/Algorithms" video. The video also talks about mastering the coding interview. Andrei Neagoie has knocked it out of the park. I am so grateful that God has connected me with this resource. Literally, this resource appeared in my email out of the blue during the COVID-19 quarantine. If I spend time daily, he said that a person can finish it in about a month. So, my goal is to finish this resource by November 20. I'm giving myself five weeks. I want to start applying for jobs even sooner than my original goal of January 2, 2021. I love the feeling that my steps are being ordered by the Lord. 

I just started the 3rd Module on IBM's Coursera Data Science Certificate course entitled "Data Science Methodology", and watched a good webinar this afternoon about women in tech. I am excited about the future. 
I am working my way through Skillcrush's "Github" class as well. My goal is to spend at least two hours every day on these courses. 

I have been updated and cleaning up my GitHub site all morning and afternoon. For several hours, I could not get my "Jubilee Austen" website to show all of the social media icons. I uploaded, reuploaded, deleted repos, created new repos, modified the index.html file multiple times, pushed to GitHub numerous times, and do you know what the problem was? Do you know why my social media icons would display on my local computer webpage, but not on my https://stacey77nash.github.io/jubilee/ page? The adblocker. I needed to disable the adblocker, and allow GitHub to function properly. Can you believe that? Experience is a wonderful teacher. 

